## Example Flows
1. Paul, an avid Pokemon card collecter, logs in to the personal media tracker to create a new catalog of his entire Pokemon collection. Paul logins into his account using `POST /user/login` and successfully enters his username to login, he then calls `POST /users/{user_id}/catalog` to create a new catalog for his Pokemon cards. Paul finally uses `POST users/{user_id}/catalog/{catalog_id}/entries` for every card in his collection to add it to his media tracker. Paul knows several other Pokemon collectors using the personal media tracker, Paul calls `POST /users/{user_id}/social` and passes in the name of his friend Connor. Since Connor exists on the site, his user name is found and returned to Paul's follower list.

2. On Saturday, Jonathan is hoping to relax after a busy week by watching a movie. He is unsure of what to watch, but he knows about the personal media tracker that his friends use to write opinions and recommendations for movies that they have seen. Jonathan creates an account for the personal media tracker by calling `POST /user/create` and immediately follows his friend Aiden by calling `POST  user/{user_id}/social` passing Aiden’s account name. Jonathan uses `GET user/{user_id}/social/{follower_id}/catalogs` to get and  browse a list of Aiden’s catalogs. Jonathan finds a public catalog titled “my_movies”. Finally, Jonathan calls  `GET user/{user_id}/social/{user_name}/catalogs/{catalog}/recommendations` on Aiden’s “my_movies” catalog to see the list of movie entries that Aiden personally recommends. Jonathan sees “Dune: Part 2” on Aiden’s list along with a favorable rating and opinion and decides to watch that to end his chill Saturday evening.

3. Connor hears about a new personal media tracker and wants to use it to keep track of the video games he has played. He creates an account by calling `POST /user/create`. After that, he creates a catalog for his games by calling `POST user/{user_id}/catalog` and passing in the title “my_games” and the catalog type of “games”. He then creates an entry using `POST user/{user_id}/catalogs/{catalog_name}/entries`. He creates an entry for “Omori” with a rating of 8/10. After creating the entry, he thinks to himself that “Omori” is actually the greatest psychological horror game and wants to change his rating. He calls `PUT /user/{user_id}/catalogs/{catalog_name}/entries/{entry_title}` and passes a new rating of 10/10.
